== Site de l'hote lamaisoncreole


Vous pouvez trouver le code des des pages du site dans le dossier app/views
  
  structure du site (header, footer, menus, etc):
    app/views/layouts/application.html.erb

  page de contact: 
    app/views/contact_messages/new/_form

  Jour de visite:
    app/views/visites/_visite1.html.erb
    app/views/visites/_visite2.html.erb
    ...

  autres pages principales:
    app/views/welcome/_hotel.html.erb
    app/views/welcome/_reserver.html.erb
    ....


===================================================================================================================

Afin de gérer plusieurs langages, le contenu des textes est progressivement déplacé 
depuis les pages-elles mêmes vers les fichier de langues que vous pouvez trouver ici:
  config/locales/fr.yml
  config/locales/en.yml

exemple: 
  dans la page:
    [...]
    notre restaurant est cool
    [...]
  dans le fichier de langue fr.yml:
    -
  dans le fichier de langue en.yml:
    -


devient
  dans la page:
    [...]
    <%= I18n.t('phrase_resto') %>
    [...]
  dans le fichier de langue fr.yml:
    phrase_resto: "notre restaurant est cool"
  dans le fichier de langue en.yml:
    phrase_resto: "our restaurant is cool"


===================================================================================================================

== Pour un futur développeur:

 * besoin de connaitre les bases du web (html/css/ un peu javascript) -> tout dévellopeur web connait ça.
 * besoin de savoir un minimum programmer pour apprendre les bases nécessaires pour modifier du code ruby dans une application ruby on rails
 * besoin de parler anglais (pour programmer, de manière générale, c'est assez nécessaire)
 * savoir utiliser le logiciel git, ou être capable d'apprendre à s'en servir (c'est pas très difficile!)

 ===================================================================================================================

== Configurer un environnement de développement:

0. Installez ruby (via RVM: https://rvm.io/)
1. Télécharger le code du site sur votre pc ou mac et mettez tout dans un dossier 'lamaisoncreole' 
  via git: git clone https://github.com/lamaisoncreole/lamaisoncreole.git
2. Ouvrez une console et allez dans le dossier lamaisoncreole puis lancez le site web via la commande: rails server
    cd lamaisoncreole; 
    rails server

3. Tapez dans votre navigateur internet http://localhost:3000/ et vous verrez le site. C'est tout.

4. Quand vos modifications sont faires, utilisez GIT et 'commitez' toutes vos modifications, puis poussez les vers le server.



===================================================================================================================
Pour apprendre les bases (et même plus) sur ruby et ruby on rails :

* The Getting Started Guide: http://guides.rubyonrails.org/getting_started.html
* Ruby on Rails Tutorial Book: http://www.railstutorial.org/

===================================================================================================================
Vous trouvez ci dessous une organisation du code
== Organisation du code

  |-- app
  |   |-- assets
  |       |-- images
  |       |-- javascripts
  |       `-- stylesheets
  |   |-- controllers
  |   |-- helpers
  |   |-- mailers
  |   |-- models
  |   `-- views
  |       `-- layouts
  |-- config
  |   |-- environments
  |   |-- initializers
  |   `-- locales
  |-- db
  |-- doc
  |-- lib
  |   `-- tasks
  |-- log
  |-- public
  |-- script
  |-- test
  |   |-- fixtures
  |   |-- functional
  |   |-- integration
  |   |-- performance
  |   `-- unit
  |-- tmp
  |   |-- cache
  |   |-- pids
  |   |-- sessions
  |   `-- sockets
  `-- vendor
      |-- assets
          `-- stylesheets
      `-- plugins

app
  Holds all the code that's specific to this particular application.

app/assets
  Contains subdirectories for images, stylesheets, and JavaScript files.

app/controllers
  Holds controllers that should be named like weblogs_controller.rb for
  automated URL mapping. All controllers should descend from
  ApplicationController which itself descends from ActionController::Base.

app/models
  Holds models that should be named like post.rb. Models descend from
  ActiveRecord::Base by default.

app/views
  Holds the template files for the view that should be named like
  weblogs/index.html.erb for the WeblogsController#index action. All views use
  eRuby syntax by default.

app/views/layouts
  Holds the template files for layouts to be used with views. This models the
  common header/footer method of wrapping views. In your views, define a layout
  using the <tt>layout :default</tt> and create a file named default.html.erb.
  Inside default.html.erb, call <% yield %> to render the view using this
  layout.

app/helpers
  Holds view helpers that should be named like weblogs_helper.rb. These are
  generated for you automatically when using generators for controllers.
  Helpers can be used to wrap functionality for your views into methods.

config
  Configuration files for the Rails environment, the routing map, the database,
  and other dependencies.

db
  Contains the database schema in schema.rb. db/migrate contains all the
  sequence of Migrations for your schema.

doc
  This directory is where your application documentation will be stored when
  generated using <tt>rake doc:app</tt>

lib
  Application specific libraries. Basically, any kind of custom code that
  doesn't belong under controllers, models, or helpers. This directory is in
  the load path.

public
  The directory available for the web server. Also contains the dispatchers and the
  default HTML files. This should be set as the DOCUMENT_ROOT of your web
  server.

script
  Helper scripts for automation and generation.

test
  Unit and functional tests along with fixtures. When using the rails generate
  command, template test files will be generated for you and placed in this
  directory.

vendor
  External libraries that the application depends on. Also includes the plugins
  subdirectory. If the app has frozen rails, those gems also go here, under
  vendor/rails/. This directory is in the load path.
